Troubleshoot shared memory stolostron/backlog#27105 (#4655)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: troubleshooting/trouble_shared_memory.adoc

[#troubleshooting-shared-memory]
= Troubleshooting PostgreSQL shared memory error

> If you have a high number of applications, you might encounter a PostgreSQL shared memory error that impacts search results and the topology view for applications.

Reviewer: While this was true for the QE environment, let's keep the reason more general. Please see suggested change:
```suggestion
Larger environments may encounter a PostgreSQL shared memory error that impacts search results and the topology view for applications. 
```

 
[#symptom-shared-memory]
== Symptom: PostgreSQL shared memory error

> An error message resembling the following appears on the initial search landing page: `ERROR: could not resize shared memory segment "/PostgreSQL.1083654800" to 25031264 bytes: No space left on device (SQLSTATE 53100)`

Reviewer: To be more clear, this error appears in the search-api logs and is invoked by the initial requests coming from the search landing page.

[#resolving-shared-memory]
== Resolving the problem: PostgreSQL shared memory error

> To resolve the issue, increase PostgreSQL resources found in the search PostgreSQL `ConfigMap`. Complete the following steps to update the resources with higher values:

Reviewer 2: Remove monospace tag from ConfigMap

Author: I've seen it both ways in the doc. Should all instances be no monospace?

Reviewer 2: Correct, no monospace

> To resolve the issue, increase PostgreSQL resources found in the search PostgreSQL `ConfigMap`. Complete the following steps to update the resources with higher values:

Reviewer: the name of the configmap should look like this: `search-postgres`
```suggestion
To resolve the issue, the PostgreSQL resources found in the `search-postgres` ConfigMap will need tuning. Complete the following steps to update the resources:
```

> 

Reviewer: Would be good to also include a small blurb about what each parameter does:

* setting  `max_parallel_workers_per_gather  =  0` disables parallel queries
* increasing `work_mem` and `shared_buffers` will allocate more memory

Author: Added as comments.

. Run the following command to switch to the `ocm` project:
+
----

> oc project ocm

Reviewer: should be **open-cluster-management**. I think ocm is only for qe env.
```suggestion
oc project open-cluster-management
```

----

> . Run the following command to prevent search from overwriting your changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Run the following command to prevent the search operator from overwriting your changes:
```

+
----
oc annotate search search-v2-operator search-pause=true
----

. Run the following command to update the resources in the `search-postgres` YAML file:
+
----
oc edit cm search-postgres -n ocm
----
+
See the following example for increasing resources:
+
[source,yaml]
----
  postgresql.conf: |-
    work_mem = '128MB'
    max_parallel_workers_per_gather = '0'
    shared_buffers = '8GB'
----
+
Make sure to save your changes before exiting.

> . Run the following command to delete the `postgres` and `api` pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To restart the `postgres` and `api` pod, run the following command.
```

+
----
oc delete pod search-postgres-xyz search-api-xzy
----

> To verify your changes, open the `search-postgres` YAML file and confirm that the changes you made to `postgresql.conf:` are present by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: It seems like step number 5? Add a period before the statement

Author: Fixed!
